Dev (#47)
42-AI/bootcamp_data-engineering: day01/ex00/ex00.md

# Exercise 00 - The setup.

|                         |                    |
| -----------------------:| ------------------ |

> |   Turnin directory :    |  ex00              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|   Turn-in directory:    |  ex00              |
```

> |   Files to turn in :    |                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|   Files to turn in:     |                    |
```

> |   Forbidden function :  |  None              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|   Forbidden functions:  |  None              |
```

> |   Remarks :             |  n/a               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|   Remarks:              |  n/a               |
```

| `/bin`    | Binary scripts including elasticsearch to start a node and elasticsearch-plugin to install plugins |
| `/config` | Configuration files including elasticsearch.yml                                                    |
| `/data`   | The location of the data files of each index and shard allocated on the node |
| `/jdk`    | The bundled version of OpenJDK from the JDK maintainers (GPLv2+CE) |
| `/lib`    | The Java JAR files of Elasticsearch |
| `/logs`   | Elasticsearch log files location |
| `/modules` | Contains various Elasticsearch modules |
| `/plugins` | Plugin files location. Each plugin will be contained in a subdirectory |

* Start your cluster by running the ./elasticsearch in the /bin folder and wait a few seconds for the node to start. 

Ok so now your cluster should be running and listening on `http://localhost:9200`.
Elasticsearch works with a REST API, which means that to query your cluster you just have to send an HTTP request to the good endpoints (we will come to that).

Check you can access the cluster:

```bash
curl http://localhost:9200
```

> You can do the same in a web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can also be done in a web browser.
```

You should see something like this:

```python
{
  "name" : "e3r4p23.42.fr",
  "cluster_name" : "elasticsearch",
  "cluster_uuid" : "SZdgmzxFSnW2IMVxvVj-9w",
  "version" : {
    "number" : "7.5.2",
    "build_flavor" : "default",
    "build_type" : "tar",
    "build_hash" : "e9ccaed468e2fac2275a3761849cbee64b39519f",
    "build_date" : "2019-11-26T01:06:52.518245Z",
    "build_snapshot" : false,
    "lucene_version" : "8.3.0",
    "minimum_wire_compatibility_version" : "6.8.0",
    "minimum_index_compatibility_version" : "6.0.0-beta1"
  },
  "tagline" : "You Know, for Search"
}
```

If not, feel free to look at the doc :) (or ask your neighbors, or google...) [Elasticsearch setup](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup.html).

Now stop the cluster (ctrl-c). Change the configuration so that your cluster name is "my-cluster" and the node name is "node1".  

> Restart your cluster and check the new names with  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restart your cluster and ensure the new names have been taken into account:
```
